<head><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css"></head>

# Did Lazarus Write John? Is he the Disciple Jesus Loved?

**Question(s):** It's been suggested that Lazarus is the one referred to as the disciple Jesus loved, commonly thought to be John, since messengers tell Jesus that the one he loves (not disciple he loves, note) is sick, and we're told this is Lazarus.

An obvious initial problem is that this disciple is said to be the author of the gospel of John, in the final chapter. So did Lazarus write John?

My answer below will be no, that's highly unlikely. As I understand it, arguments for Lazarus as the "Disciple Loved," or DiLoved as I'll call it for short, are making some important misunderstandings related (hopefully unintentionally) to some core doctrine (especially Trinity), apologetics (debunking countless Bible contradictions), and proper interpretation (how to know when "all" is literal).

I'll try to walk through major arguments pro/con with Scriptural quotes backing it up, and explain why I think John phrased things this way.

I could be wrong, now, but I don't think so.

([Skip to answer](#answer) if you're familiar with my standard "must read" notes below. Otherwise you must read the must-read notes.)

## Must-Read Notes:
**If you know my real name, do not tell others.** I don't agree with giving out personal information online. You may refer to me by my email address, [**idealparable@gmail.com**](idealparable@gmail.com).

Bible quotes may be from [World English Bible Public domain version (WEBP)](https://ebible.org/web/GEN01.htm), or [Legacy Standard Bible (LSB)](https://www.blueletterbible.org/lsb/gen/1/1) (links will usually be to LSB on Blue Letter Bible (BLB)).

**Bible quotes may be enclosed in slashes** without spaces (e.g. /In the beginning.../), preserving existing quote marks. Slashes wih spaces may go between parallel quotes / fragments / cites / etc.

Extrabiblical quotes may be enclosed in "\|" (pipe) characters (example \|...the founder of the name...\|).

Keep in mind for brevity my wording may sound more definite than intended. This site is devoted to careful, open-minded truthseeking, building soundly from the ground up, and help anyone interested learn the current global state of knowledge. I'll try, though, to clarify what is less or more certain with clear word choice.

See [end notes](#end-notes) for more about citation style, copyright notices, explanations of common abbreviations, and a little more about (ideally not) citing me or contacting me. Read those too when you finish reading the rest of this page, please, if you haven't before.

# Answer
John and Lazarus were both very close friends of Jesus. It isn't surprising that John exclusively focuses on Lazarus in his gospel.

One error that may be being made by Laz=DiLoved proponents (arguments may vary, and I'm not assuming it's an error but hear me out) is based on seeing this passage as definitely *quoting* the messengers (the phrase in question I'll put in bold emphasis):

/11
1 Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister, Martha. 2 It was that Mary who had anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.

3 The sisters therefore sent to him, saying, **“Lord, behold, he for whom you have great affection is sick.”**

4 But when Jesus heard it, he said, “This sickness is not to death, but for the glory of God, that God’s Son may be glorified by it.” 5 Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus./

LSB has it as /"Lord, behold, he whom You love is sick."/

Quote marks didn't exist in Greek.

Usually these were paraphrases.

This is most likely *John's paraphrase* of the content of the messengers' message.

*Not* likely a direct quote.






































<br>
<br>

---

<br>

# End Notes:
### Bible Citations
- Bible quotes may be enclosed in slashes (e.g. /In the beginning.../), especially if extended.
- Copypasted from Blue Letter Bible (BLB).
- For shorter pages on this site, Bible version will usually be Legacy Standard Bible version (LSB) unless otherwise specified. See [here](https://www.blueletterbible.org/bibles/preface-to-the-legacy-standard-bible.cfm) for their format notes.
- I may put LSB italicized words (words not in the source) in square brackets ("[]") for easy .txt file copying of my content (.txt files, of the Windows Notepad app, take up very little space to store, but don't preserve italics, bold, etc.).
- Citation formats may also be in square brackets (when auto-generated by BLB).
- Quoted parallel fragments separated by slash (e.g. /expanse / heavens/).
- Extended quotes of extrabiblical sources may be delimited with "\|" (pipe) characters. Curly brackets "{}" could also be used; pipe has to be escaped with backslash in this coding format (Markdown, with some HTML) indicating a literal character rather than a table, but pipe looks much better.
- I may still use normal quote marks as well in some cases.
- The LSB has some limitations of general permission to quote, such as only up to a thousand quotes in one work ([see details here](https://lsbible.org/permission-to-quote-the-lsb/)). So for extended quotes or whole-Bible-study articles or ones that otherwise will likely quote from many books of the Bible open-endedly, I default to the [World English Bible](https://ebible.org/web/GEN01.htm), as a decent modern [Public Domain](https://ebible.org/web/copyright.htm) version (WEBP, don't confuse with Webster's Bible (WEB), although WEBP is sometimes called WEB too). So I may use that instead, or partially, likely with specification. Other versions may be quoted or cited, with specification.
- LSB as represented on BLB uses inline "[fn]" links to footnotes as popups. When I copypaste from BLB LSB, I will preserve these, as an indicator you can go to BLB to see what the popup says (and so I don't have to manually edit each such quote). These are placed before the word or phrase they apply to. However, I will not typically be quoting the footnotes here.
- LSB requires web pages that use quotes of LSB to include the following copyright notice:
"Scripture quotations taken from the (LSB®) Legacy Standard Bible®, Copyright © 2021 by The Lockman Foundation. Used by permission. All rights reserved. Managed in partnership with Three Sixteen Publishing Inc.  [LSBible.org](https://lsbible.org/) and [316publishing.com](https://316publishing.com/)."
Note: "For web pages or apps the full copyright notice must be used with www.LSBible.org being a click-enabled web link."

### Abbreviations:
#### For this page:
(None listed currently.)
#### Common Abbreviations: 
- **OT** = Old Testament (Genesis through Malachi).
- **IT** = Inter-Testamental historical era, includes some extrabiblical literature sometimes relevant for insights into beliefs at the time.
- **NT** = New Testament (Matthew through Revelation).
<br><br>
- **MT** = Masoretic Text (Primary Hebrew text of Old Testament, generally considered the most accurate despite late date).
- **LXX/70/Sept** = Septuagint (Ancient Greek translation of Old Testament), often altered or thought for thought translation, but often quoted in NT, generally useful.
- **SP** = Samaritan Pentateuch (another Hebrew text of the first five OT books).
<br><br>
- **ANE** = Ancient Near East
- **BLB** = Blue Letter Bible
- **WEBP** = World English Bible Public domain version. Designed to be freely quoted in any amount.
- **LSB** = Legacy Standard Bible. Very new attempted word-for-word translation, endorsed by Answers in Genesis, based on NASB1995AD.
<br><br>
- **AiG** = Answers in Genesis (don't confused with AIG with capital I the insurance company).
- **CMI** = Creation Ministries International
- **ICR** = Institute of Creation Research
- **CRS** = Creation Research Society
- **JPH** = James Patrick Holding of tektonics.org, some CMI articles, a library scientist & apologist, common source of mine on proper interpretation, scholarship review, biblical social context, etc.
- **GM** = Glenn Miller of ChristianThinkTank.org, common source of JPH's, also does extensive scholarship and biblical context review.

### Cite or Contact Me?
Please think twice about citing me as if I was an authoritative source. I'm just a nobody layman with a brain who's dying (hopefully of old age), so I wanted to know what would happen after, and what I should do about it. As should all. I happened to learn a lot, including a layman focus on logic. So in case it would help people I try to make what I know available to others, but you should be doing your own study.

If you want to cite me, you can refer to me by my email: idealparable@gmail.com.

If you have questions, be aware I might not be very responsive at that email. I don't like to spend much time on one-on-one answers as that only directly goes to one person at a time. We have a whole globe of billions of people to be informed. But you can try if you must. It's a Charlie Brown mailbox, though, and unlike him, I usually don't bother checking. Expect delays.

**If you know my real name, do not tell others.** I don't agree with giving out personal information online.

---
[BibleSeek Hub Page](index.md)