### Bible Citations
- Bible quotes may be enclosed in slashes (e.g. /In the beginning.../), especially if extended.
- Copypasted from Blue Letter Bible (BLB).
- For shorter pages on this site, Bible version will usually be Legacy Standard Bible version (LSB) unless otherwise specified. See [here](https://www.blueletterbible.org/bibles/preface-to-the-legacy-standard-bible.cfm){:target="_blank"} for their format notes.
- I may put LSB italicized words (words not in the source) in square brackets ("[]") for easy .txt file copying of my content (.txt files, of the Windows Notepad app, take up very little space to store, but don't preserve italics, bold, etc.).
- Citation formats may also be in square brackets (when auto-generated by BLB).
- Quoted parallel fragments separated by slash (e.g. /expanse / heavens/).
- Extended quotes of extrabiblical sources may be delimited with "\|" (pipe) characters. Curly brackets "{}" could also be used; pipe has to be escaped with backslash in this coding format (Markdown, with some HTML) indicating a literal character rather than a table, but pipe looks much better.
- I may still use normal quote marks as well in some cases.
- The LSB has some limitations of general permission to quote, such as only up to a thousand quotes in one work ([see details here](https://lsbible.org/permission-to-quote-the-lsb/){:target="_blank"}). So for extended quotes or whole-Bible-study articles or ones that otherwise will likely quote from many books of the Bible open-endedly, I default to the [World English Bible](https://ebible.org/web/GEN01.htm){:target="_blank"}, as a decent modern [Public Domain](https://ebible.org/web/copyright.htm){:target="_blank"} version (WEBP, don't confuse with Webster's Bible (WEB), although WEBP is sometimes called WEB too). So I may use that instead, or partially, likely with specification. Other versions may be quoted or cited, with specification.
- LSB as represented on BLB uses inline "[fn]" links to footnotes as popups. When I copypaste from BLB LSB (or others), I will normally preserve these, as an indicator you can go to BLB to see what the popup says (and so I don't have to manually edit each such quote). These are placed before the word or phrase they apply to. However, I will not typically be quoting the footnotes here.
- LSB requires web pages that use quotes of LSB to include the following copyright notice:
"Scripture quotations taken from the (LSB®) Legacy Standard Bible®, Copyright © 2021 by The Lockman Foundation. Used by permission. All rights reserved. Managed in partnership with Three Sixteen Publishing Inc.  [LSBible.org](https://lsbible.org/){:target="_blank"} and [316publishing.com](https://316publishing.com/){:target="_blank"}."
Note: "For web pages or apps the full copyright notice must be used with www.LSBible.org being a click-enabled web link."
- Block quotes by default are reddish-orange font color, lime green if biblical quotes. Same may be added to inline quotes if I get around to it. Links are blue, or light teal if visited (except header / hub page link in footer which are green). Links other than to a place on the same page should normally open in a new tab (if I set that up per link).
